Red Eclipse moderators and administrators have several powerful commands at their disposal to manage players and gameplay. This guide lists common admin commands, print it for a handy cheat sheet. For a complete list of admin commands and variables, see [[Client and Admin Vars]].

==Using Commands==
===Entering Commands===
To use the commands listed in this guide, press the tilde (~) key near the top-left corner of the keyboard. This will open the console. Type the desired command and press the Enter or Return key to execute it.

===Client Numbers===
Many commands use client numbers, abbreviated as "cn", to refer to specific players on a server. To see client numbers, press the Tab key to open the scoreboard. Client numbers are listed in the column labeled "cn" next to each player's name. Use this number when a commands requires a client number as input.

===Hints===
* When typing a command, pressing the Tab key will autocomplete the command being typed. Press Tab multiple times to cycle through possible autocompletions.
* Player nicknames can be used instead of client numbers, however the name must be entered exactly the same as it is displayed.

==Moderation Commands==
{| class="wikitable"
|+Command
|+Description
|-
|'''setteam''' <cn> <team>
|Moves a player to a specified team, 1 - Alpha, 2 - Omega, 3 - Kappa, 4 - Sigma
|-
|'''limit''' <cn>
|Limits a player from changing teams
|-
|'''mute''' <cn>
|Mutes a player.
|-
|'''clearmutes'''
|Clears all current mutes.
|-
|'''spectator''' <cn> <state>
|Moves a player to or from spectator. State can be:
* 0 - Playing
* 1 - Spectating
* 2 - Quarantined, player cannot exit spectator
|-
|'''kick''' <cn> <reason>
|"Kicks", or disconnects, a player from the server. The optional reason attribute allows moderators to explain why the player was kicked.
|-
|'''ban''' <cn> <reason>
|Temporarily bans a player from the server. The optional reason attribute allows moderators to explain why the player was banned.
|}

==Administration Commands==
{| class="wikitable"
|+Command
|+Description
|-
|'''mastermode''' <mode>
|Sets the server master mode to one of the following:
* 0 - Normal server operation
* 1 - Veto, admins map votes pass immediately
* 2 - Locked, players without moderator or admin privileges cannot join the game
* 3 - Private, players without moderator or admin privileges cannot connect to the server
|}

==Master Server==
Trusted moderators are given access to the [http://github.com/red-eclipse/master master repository] which contains the environment for the master server, this includes the global ban (and other) lists. If you don't want to do a git checkout of the repository, you can edit the files using the GitHub visual editor and commit directly to the repository from there. The server runs the update sequence every ten minutes (X:00, X:10, X:20 .. X:50), at which point the master server will reload the configuration and pass the updated information to all connected servers.