Welcome to the discussion portal! Use this place to discuss the wiki in general for items such as reporting abusive behavior, suggesting major changes to a popular page, etc., so users can collaborate together in making a better wiki.

Simply edit this page to create a new topic (see how below).
<div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed">
'''Example usage''':
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
== Topic point/Summary ==
Describing the issue (and 'sign' using <nowiki>--~~~~</nowiki> at the end). --[[User:Honno|Honno]] ([[User talk:Honno|talk]]) 09:06, 5 February 2015 (EST)
: Type a colon (":") before entering a reply and sign. --[[User:Honno|Honno]] ([[User talk:Honno|talk]]) 09:06, 5 February 2015 (EST)
:: Type two colons ("::") to reply to a reply. --[[User:Honno|Honno]] ([[User talk:Honno|talk]]) 09:06, 5 February 2015 (EST)
: When there's already a reply and you want to make a different point just use one colon to start a different reply tree --[[User:Honno|Honno]] ([[User talk:Honno|talk]]) 09:06, 5 February 2015 (EST)
: And --[[User:Honno|Honno]] ([[User talk:Honno|talk]]) 09:06, 5 February 2015 (EST)
:: so --[[User:Honno|Honno]] ([[User talk:Honno|talk]]) 09:06, 5 February 2015 (EST)
::: on --[[User:Honno|Honno]] ([[User talk:Honno|talk]]) 09:06, 5 February 2015 (EST)


'''Code'''
 <nowiki>
== Topic point/Summary ==
Describing the issue (and 'sign' using --~~~~ at the end). --~~~~
: Type a colon (:) before entering a reply and sign. --~~~~
:: Type two colons ("::") to reply to a reply. --~~~~
: When there's already a reply and you want to make a different point just use one colon to start a different reply tree --~~~~
: And --~~~~
:: so --~~~~
::: on --~~~~
</nowiki>
</div>
</div>

== Example ==
Hello, this is just a humble example. Please post new issues below this. --[[User:Honno|Honno]] ([[User talk:Honno|talk]]) 09:06, 5 February 2015 (EST)

== Migration to github ==
I realize that we got used to the term SVN-version as a synonym for development version. With the migration to github (see [[how to contribute]] and this [http://redeclipse.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=597 forum-topic], SVN-version seems incorrect. Should we translate that as dev-version, or maybe even git-version? The latter sounds a bit strange.--[[User:Bonifarz|Bonifarz]] ([[User talk:Bonifarz|talk]]) 13:54, 5 February 2015 (EST)

== About this page ==
Previously [http://redeclipse.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=278 this] forum topic was used to collaborate, but my hope is to self-contain the happenings of the wiki from the forums, so we can talk more about the wiki and not spam the forums, in the cause to make a worthy wiki to help new players in-game and it's functions (and so their experience, leading to the the games overall exposure). What do you guys think about this? --[[User:Honno|Honno]] ([[User talk:Honno|talk]]) 09:13, 5 February 2015 (EST)