== User Content ==

User Content in Red Eclipse consists of all user configuration files, and any other content that they have downloaded or created. Specifically, this directory includes:
* config.cfg, init.cfg, autoexec.cfg, localinit.cfg, servers.cfg
* log.txt, servlog.txt
* Custom content, such as user-made mapmodels, textures, or sounds
* Saved maps
* Downloaded maps
* Files (.txt, .cfg) generated via the [[Variables#Game_Variables|/writevars]] command

=== Location ===

Each operating system has a designated directory (folder) to store user content. This is sometimes referred to as the Red Eclipse "home" directory. The location of this folder differs from OS to OS, and each location is outlined in the sections below.

The "home directory" location '''can be changed'''. See the [[Client_Command_Line_Options#Filesystem_options|Client Command-line options]] page for more details.

==== Windows ====

The exact location varies on different versions of Windows, but the path can easily be found using [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variables#DOS.2C_OS.2F2_and_Windows_.28Command_Prompt.29 environment variables], and can be used like this:
 %USERPROFILE%\My Documents\My Games\Red Eclipse

===== XP =====

 C:\Documents and Settings\<username>\My Documents\My Games\Red Eclipse

===== Vista/Win7 =====

 C:\Users\<username>\My Documents\My Games\Red Eclipse

==== Linux ====

 ~/.redeclipse

==== Mac/OSX ====

 /Users/<username>/Library/Application Support/Red Eclipse

=== autoexec.cfg ===

This file, as it's name suggests, executes all commands listed in the file every time Red Eclipse is launched. It is used for numerous reasons including, but not limited to:
* Executing arbitrary commands
* Executing other scripts via `'''exec'''`
* Creating user-defined command aliases
* Keeping persistent user-defined settings
** Alternatively, this can be accomplished with the '''setpersist''' command.

This file does not exist by default and must be created.

=== config.cfg ===

This is the main user configuration file. All game settings, options, keybinds and the like are stored here, and is updated automatically when Red Eclipse is closed. It is generally not necessary or recommended to edit this file; custom aliases/settings should go into '''autoexec.cfg'''. It may also be desirable to backup this file occasionally, as all custom binds and the like that are not stored in '''autoexec.cfg''' will be lost with the file in case of data corruption/deletion/etc.

=== localinit.cfg ===

This file works in the same way that [https://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/redeclipse/browser/doc/examples/servinit.cfg servinit.cfg] does, except it is used by the client's local server. In other words, when you play "offline practice".

=== init.cfg ===

This file contains very specific and basic game settings that '''should not be edited by hand'''. Contains video and sound settings, among other important "under the hood" settings.

=== servers.cfg ===

Contains a list of known servers that will be displayed in the server browser. You probably wont ever need to edit this by hand.

== How Custom Content is Loaded ==

When Red Eclipse is launched, the engine will first check for game files such as sounds, textures, config files, etc. in the "home" directory '''and then''' looks in the '''data/''' directory inside the installation directory. This allows custom content to be substituted by recreating the content structure found inside the '''data/''' directory.

For example, let's say you have a custom rifle zoom texture, and a custom firing sound for the rifle. If you wanted to use these instead of the defaults, simply place them in your Red Eclipse "home" folder exactly how they would be found inside the main '''data/''' directory.

 <rehome>/sounds/weapons/rifle/primary.ogg
 <rehome>/textures/zoom.png

Where ''<rehome>'' is the location of your Red Eclipse "home" directory. Notice how the directory structure is the same as that found in the '''data/''' directory. Now when you launch Red Eclipse, it will substitute the default files with the custom files inside your "home" directory. This way, the default content does not need to be overwritten, and all of your custom content stays with the rest of your configuration files.