== Windows ==

* Download [http://redeclipse.net/download/windows the Windows installer].
* When it is done, double click the resulting EXE installer.
* Run through the prompts to install Red Eclipse on your computer.
* Run the <code>Red Eclipse</code> shortcut placed in your Start Menu.

If you get a permission denied error during install, right click the installer and [http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows7/how-do-i-run-an-application-once-with-a-full-administrator-access-token Run as Administrator]. Alternatively, you can change the install location to a user-writable folder (like "[My] Documents") during the install process.

== Linux ==

=== Standard Package ===

* Install git, curl and the runtime dependencies of Red Eclipse.
** On a Debian-like system (e.g. Ubuntu, Linux Mint), this can be done with the command:
*** <code>sudo apt-get install git curl libsdl2-mixer-2.0-0 libsdl2-image-2.0-0 libsdl2-2.0-0</code>
** On a Fedora system, this can be done with the command:
*** <code>dnf install curl SDL2 SDL2_mixer SDL2_image</code>
* Download [http://redeclipse.net/download/linux the Linux tarball].
* When it is done, move the resulting TAR.BZ2 file to your home directory (~/ or $HOME = /home/username).
* Extract the contents into your home directory using your favourite archive utility.
** Terminal command: <code>tar -jxvf redeclipse_X.Y.Z_nix.tar.bz2</code>
* Enter the resulting folder (which will be called <code>~/redeclipse-X.Y.Z</code> where X.Y.Z is the version number of the package).
* Run <code>./redeclipse.sh</code>

=== AppImage ===

You can install Red Eclipse as an [http://appimage.org AppImage] with no dependency installation required. At the moment, only 64-bit AppImages are provided. They should work on any system from 2014 (such as Ubuntu 14.04) onward.
After downloading the appimage, set it executable with your file manager or with <code>chmod +x <path to appimage></code>. You can then double-click on it or run it from the commandline. Updates will be automatically downloaded and applied.

==== Stable version ====

Download the latest [https://redeclipse.net/appimage/stable/redeclipse-stable-x86_64.AppImage stable AppImage], make it executable (using your file manager or running <code>chmod +x redeclipse-stable-x86_64.AppImage</code>). Then, double click the file or run it from the commandline (<code>./redeclipse-stable-x86_86.AppImage</code>). That's all you have to do, Red Eclipse should be up and running.

==== Development version ====

Download the latest [https://redeclipse.net/appimage/master/redeclipse-master-x86_64.AppImage development AppImage], make it executable (using your file manager or running <code>chmod +x redeclipse-master-x86_64.AppImage</code>). Then, double click the file or run it from the commandline (<code>./redeclipse-master-x86_86.AppImage</code>). That's all you have to do, Red Eclipse should be up and running.

==== Server builds ====

The standalone server is built as well, you can access all builds at [https://redeclipse.net/appimage https://redeclipse.net/appimage].

==== Advanced options ====

You can set the following environment variables to configure the AppImage's behaviour:
* REDECLIPSE_APPIMAGE_NO_UPDATE
** If set, will prevent automatic updating.
* REDECLIPSE_APPIMAGE_NOTERM
** If set, will prevent the automatic updating from opening a terminal to display progress.
* REDECLIPSE_APPIMAGE_TERM
** If set, will use the value of this variable as the terminal program to display update progress.

== macOS ==

* Download [http://redeclipse.net/download/macos the macOS tarball].
* When it is done, click the resulting TAR.BZ2 file in your downloads folder on the dock.
* Archive utility will extract the contents into the same folder and open a Finder window with <code>redeclipse.app</code> highlighted.
* Drag and drop the <code>redeclipse.app</code> package to your favourite location (Desktop, Applications folder, whatever).
* Run <code>redeclipse.app</code>.

If this is the first time running the app, the operating system complains that it can't run an unsigned package, simply right (or cmd) click and select <code>Open</code>. In future you will be able to run the app as normal, this will override the warning for all future attempts. You can also do this [http://osxdaily.com/2015/07/15/add-remove-gatekeeper-app-command-line-mac-os-x/ from the command line].

== Unofficial Builds ==
'''These packages are created by third parties and aren't officially supported by the Red Eclipse project.'''

=== Debian/Ubuntu repository ===

There is a Red Eclipse package repository hosted on openSUSE Build Service that you can use to install game and/or server. The packages provided there are newer than distributions' packages, so if you prefer to install Red Eclipse via <code>apt</code>, you should install this repository.

Beware that only the latest stable release is available on the repository. It will occasionally receive updates whenenever the <code>stable</code> branch on GitHub is updated. If you want to test the latest and greatest version of Red Eclipse, you need to either use an [[#AppImage]] or install Red Eclipse [[#Install from source|from source]].

The oldest supported distributions are Ubuntu 16.04 and Debian 8.0 for the client, and Ubuntu 14.04 and Debian 7.0 for the server.

To install the client, just go to [https://software.opensuse.org/download/package?project=home:TheAssassin:RedEclipse&package=redeclipse this site] and follow the instructions.

For the server, visit [https://software.opensuse.org/download/package?project=home:TheAssassin:RedEclipse&package=redeclipse-server this site] instead, and follow the instructions.

The packages are a fork of the original Debian Red Eclipse packages, but have been improved to reduce the size of a server installation.

== If you get stuck ==
Don't panic! If you have trouble working out how to install and run the game, you can get assistance on our [http://redeclipse.net/chat live chat] or [http://redeclipse.net/forum forums]. Please be ready to provide as much information as possible, especially what operating system you're on and specifically which package you're trying to install!