Key binds allow to execute predefined actions by pressing a key. These could be basic [[Guide#Controls|controls]], some commands or even complex [[cubeScript|scripts]].

==Options and configuration==

Some of the most useful key binds can be edited via the following menu: 
* Main menu (Esc key)
** options
*** controls

Simply click the field for a given command and press the key you want for this bind.

Any binds you save from the options menu are stored in a configuration file ''config.cfg'' in the [[Game_Settings#User_Content|user content]] directory.

'''Note:'''A text editor can be used to edit this file, however it should be noted that a configuration file with your latest settings is recreated automatically when the Red Eclipse client is closed.

==/bind and related commands==
The file ''config.cfg'' will contain bind commands of the following syntax:

    bind ''KEY'' [ ''command'' ]

For example:
    bind KP1 [echo keypad 1 pressed]

'''NOTE:''' A bind command will override any actions previously bound to that key!

The [[console]] can be used to bind keys, too. These binds will also be saved to the file ''config.cfg'' in the [[Game_Settings#User_Content|user content]] directory. 

'''Note:''' To enter commands in the console, a leading forward slash is needed on each line:

    /bind ''KEY'' [ ''command'' ]

In the following sections, this [[console]] notation will be used. If commands are copy/pasted to a configuration file or script, the leading slash must be omitted.

===Disabling a bind===
To free a key bind, simply assign ''no action'' to that key.
    /bind ''KEY'' [ ]
As usual, this will remove all previous binds from that key.

===Edit Mode Keys===
[[Editing Controls|Edit Mode keys]] may be bound separately from regular keys using "editbind" instead of "bind".

The command to bind E to the /gettex command via the ingame console would thus be:
    /editbind "E" [gettex]

===Spec Mode Keys===
Spectator Mode keys may be bound separately from regular Gameplay keys using "specbind" instead of "bind".
For example:

    /specbind "E" [echo "This only works while spectating"]

===Onrelease===
Key bindings also allow to trigger a second action when the key is released. For example, this can be used to fast-forward playback of a demo recording by holding the F key:
 /specbind "F" [sv_gamespeed 10000; onrelease sv_gamespeed 100]

===Multiple keys or actions===
Multiple keys can be used for the same command by using multiple bind lines.
    /bind ''KEY1'' [ ''action'' ]
    /bind ''KEY2'' [ ''action'' ]
In return, multiple actions can be done in a single bind command:
    bind ''KEY'' [ ''action1'' ; ''action2'' ... ]

==Bind search==
There are also commands to look up which action is bound to a given key.

    /echo getbind( ''KEY'' )
    /echo getspecbind( ''KEY'' )
    /echo geteditbind( ''KEY'' )

To list the keys bound to a certain action, the dobindsearch alias is useful.

    /echo (dobindsearch ''action'')
    /echo (dobindsearch ''action'' spec)
    /echo (dobindsearch ''action'' edit) 

==Defaults==
If you think some key binds are messed up and you are not sure how to fix the issue, simply move or rename the file ''config.cfg'' in the [[Game_Settings#User_Content|user content]] directory. This should restore all default settings. However, there are certainly some settings you want to keep, such as those related to your player profile. In this case, use a text editor to get rid of "suspect" lines (any thing starting with ''bind''), and then restore the file ''config.cfg''.

All default keybinds are read from a configuration file in the install directory, which holds similar commands as ''config.cfg'', along with many other aliases and definitions.

  red-eclipse/config/setup.cfg

'''NOTE:''' Just as with anything else in the install directory: Do not edit this file manually!