== Overview ==

This map format is based on the [http://incoherency.co.uk/interest/sauer_map.html Sauerbraten Map Format] and does not currently include extensions in Red Eclipse or updates.

The file is organised into several sections, concatenated together and gzip'd to produce a .mpz map file.

* Header
* Variables
* Gameident
* 'Extras'
* Texture MRU
* Entities
* Map geometry (octree)
* Lightmaps, PVS, blendmap

== File Specifications ==

Integer values used in this specification are all little-endian.

=== Header ===

A structure containing meta information about the map, including the number of things stored in each section. The structure used in Red Eclipse has been described in this section.

{| class="wikitable" border="1"
 ! Name		!! Data Type	!! Description				!! Example (value) !! Example (hex)
 |-
 | head		|| char[4]	|| 4-byte string indicating what type of file it is. "MAPZ" is used for Red Eclipse. || "MAPZ" || 
 |-
 | version    || int       || Version number                 || 42     || 2a 00 00 00
 |-
 | headersize || int       || Number of bytes in the header. || 48     || 30 00 00 00
 |-
 | worldsize  || int       || Size of the cube containing the map. This must be a power of 2. || 1024 || 00 04 00 00
 |-
 | numents    || int       || Number of entities in the Entities section of the file. || 1 || 01 00 00 00
 |-
 | numpvs     || int       || Unknown                        || 0      || 00 00 00 00
 |-
 | lightmaps  || int       || Unknown                        || 0      || 00 00 00 00
 |-
 | blendmap   || int       || Unknown                        || 0      || 00 00 00 00
 |-
 | numvars    || int       || Number of variables in the Variables section of the file. || 1 || 01 00 00 00
 |}

<!-- TODO
There are now three extra variables:
gamever, revision and gameid[4]
-->

==== Example ====

{|
 ! head !! version !! headersize !! worldsize !! numents !! numpvs !! lightmaps !! blendmap !! numvars !! gamever !! revision !! gameid
 | MAPZ || 42 || 48 || 1024 || 96 || 0 || 7 || 0 || 79 || 217 || 200 || fps
 | 4d 41 50 5a || 2a 00 00 00 || 30 00 00 00 || 00 04 00 00
 |}

=== Variables ===

A series of map variables such as the [[skybox]]. There are five sections to each variable, listed below.

{| class="wikitable" border="1"
 ! Name        !!colspan="2"| Data Length !! Description                    !! Example (value) !! Example (hex)
 |-
 | type        ||colspan="2"| 1 byte      || The type of variable stored in value. This may be one of the following:
* VAR (0) - An int
* FVAR (1) - A float
* SVAR (2) - A string
 | SVAR || 02
 |-
 | name length ||colspan="2"| 2 bytes     || The length of the variable name that is to come. || 6 || 06 00
 |-
 | variable name ||colspan="2"| defined above || The string representation of the variable, not zero-terminated. || skybox || 73 6b 79 62 6f 78
 |-
 |rowspan="3"| value || VAR || 4 bytes    ||rowspan="3"| The value of the variable, or in the case of an SVAR, preceded by length of the string in the value. ||rowspan="3"| 15:ik2k/env/iklake ||rowspan="3"| 0f 00 69 6b 32 6b 2f 65 6e 76 2f 69 6b 6c 61 6b 65
 |-
 | FVAR || 4 bytes
 |-
 | SVAR || 2 bytes+
 |}

=== Gameident ===

This simply specifies what game mode the map is created for. In the case of Red Eclipse can be set to 'fps'.

{| class="wikitable" border="1"
 ! name		!! Description			!! Value	!! Hex
 |-
 | length	|| The length of the string.	|| 3	|| 03
 |-
 | string	|| The string, including a zero-terminating byte.	|| fps	|| 66 70 73 00
 |}

=== 'Extras' ===

The documentation on this section is unclear. It appears to be two unsigned shorts of value 0.

<!-- TODO
Obtain permission from james@incoherency.co.uk for use of these details.
Write the rest of the documentation.
Update with Red Eclipse-specific details.

{{reflist|refs=
<ref name=SauerDef>http://incoherency.co.uk/interest/sauer_map.html</ref>
}}
-->