
All menus or guis of Red Eclipse are written in [[CubeScript]] using a set of gui commands. This means the menus can be simply modified with a text editor, without the need to compile any source code. The existing menus are therefore conveniently customized - and they also provide a large set of examples for creating your own custom menus. Such menus could be used in a campaign-like map, or for example to execute administrative commands.

==Accessing the in-game menus==

The game-menus are found in a subdirectory of the Red Eclipse install directory:
  /config/menus/
The corresponding link to the development version on github is [https://github.com/red-eclipse/base/tree/master/config/menus here].

When customizing the in-game menus, it is highly recommended to leave the files unmodified in the install directory, and work on a copy in the [[Game_Settings#User_Content|user content directory]]. In this case, the in-game menus can be overriden by executing the modified script

  exec mymenu.cfg

==A minimalistic example==
The following script will define and display a menu with just a title and one text line.

  newgui hello [
      guitext "hello world"
  ]
  showgui hello

==A test alias==
If you are familiar with the use of aliases and [[CubeScript]], you can quickly test and preview gui commands via the [[console]]. For example, the following alias can be used:

  /testgui = [ newgui test [ @arg1 ] ; showgui test ]

To reproduce the minimalistic example above, this alias can be used as follows:
  /testgui [guitext "hello world"]

This may seem fairly complicated, but it can be convenient to read the [[CubeScript#Usage_descriptions_in_the_console|usage descriptions]] and quickly check how the commands work.

==Use of gui commands==

The following sections describe many of the available gui elements and commands, which are usually not covered in  external [[CubeScript]] tutorials. These commands typically have some optional arguments, which are shown in [brackets] and can be rather complicated to use.

If a command is entered in the [[console]], usage instructions are indicated in many cases. This also holds true for many gui commands, and roughly corresponds to the following descriptions.

The ordering of a command's arguments matters. This means that, for instance, if you want to specify the colour (third argument) of a guibutton, a texture (second argument) must be given as well:
  guitext "just a test line" "" 0xffff00 
In this case, the empty texture string "" simply means that no icon is shown next to the button.

==Creation and display of menus==

===newgui=== 
creates a new menu;

Arguments:
*''name'' refers to the menu's variable name,
*''content'' refers to the actual content of the gui itself,
*[''initscript''] is optional, and is run before the menu is created (used with "if (= $guipasses 0)" to initialize variables for the menu)

===guiheader=== 
sets the header title of the menu, replacing the first argument of ''newgui'' in the title bar.

===guistayopen=== 

Usually, clicking a button or image to trigger an action will close the menu. This rule does not apply to buttons or images in a guistayopen block.

===guitab=== 
creates a new tab for the current menu. Note: The first tab of each menu is already impied by newgui.

===showgui===
shows a menu created via newgui;

Arguments:
*''name'' refers to the menu's variable name,
*[''tab''] is the index for the tab to show (and not the tab's title)

===guicount=== 
Returns the number of menus in the current gui stack.

===cleargui===
Closes all open menus; If an integer argument is given, it goes back ''value'' steps in the stack of open menus.

==Basic gui elements==
===guitext=== 
creates a text element;

Arguments:
*''text'' can be a raw string or a variable,
*[''icon''] is the path to an image, example: "textures/bomb",
*[''colour''] is a hexadecimal colour code, example: 0xFF0000, 
* [''iconcolour''] acts on the ''icon'' just like ''colour'' acts on the ''text''

===guibutton=== 
creates a button;

Arguments:
*''name'' refers to the button's variable name,
*''action'' defines what the button does,
*[''alt-act''] defines what the button does when right-clicked,
*[''icon''] is the path to an image, example: "textures/bomb",
*[''colour''] is a hexadecimal colour code, example: 0xFF0000

===guiimage=== 
creates a clickable image;

Arguments:
*''path'' is the path to an image, example: "textures/bomb",
*[''action''] defines what clicking the image does,
*[''scale''] defines the scale of the image,
*[''overlaid''] whether or not the image is overlaid with guioverlaytex (true/false),
*[''alt-path''] alternate image to use if ''path'' cannot be loaded,
*[''alt-act''] defines what the image does when right clicked,
*[''colour''] is a hexadecimal colour code - useful to colourize icons, e.g. for weapons or teams

===guicheckbox=== 
creates a checkbox;

Arguments:
*''name'' a text string shown to the right of the checkbox,
*''variable'' refers to the alias/var that the checkbox controls,
*[''on''] is the value given to ''variable'' when the checkbox is on, and vice-versa for [''off''], if these are not specified, 1/0 is assumed,
*[''onchange''] is the action taken whenever the checkbox is toggled,
*[''colour''] is a hexadecimal colour code, example: 0xFF0000

===guiradio=== 
creates a radio button;

Arguments:
*''name'' a text string shown to the right of the radio button,
*''var'' refers to the alias/var that the radio button controls,
*''value'' is the value given to ''var'' when selected,
*[''onchange''] is the action taken whenever the button is toggled,
*[''colour''] is a hexadecimal colour code, example: 0xFF0000



==Gui layout commands==

===guilist=== 
adds ''content'' to a list. Guilists can be nested to arrange gui elements horizontally and vertically. 

This also allows to structure the layout in order to use guibars, guisliders and coloured guibackgrounds

===guispring=== 
adds weight to a menu for pushing elements more/less to one side;

Arguments:
*[''value''] optional weight factor;
example: guilist [ guispring ; guitext "centered"; guispring ]

===guistrut=== 
adds spacing to a menu;

Arguments:
*if [''bool''] is 1, it wraps the guistrut in a guilist (adds spacing in the alternate direction),
*"guistrut 5 1" is the same as "guilist [ guistrut 5 ]"

===guibar=== 
draws either a vertical or a horizontal line, depending on the nesting of guilist

===guibackground===
creates a colored background;

Arguments:
*''colour'' is in hexadecimal, example: 0xFF0000,
*[''blend''] is the opacity of the colour, ranges from 0 (invisible) to 1 (opaque),
*[''bordercolour''] is the colour of the border,^n[''borderblend''] is the opacity of the border,
*[''border''] determines if the border is drawn (0 or 1),
*[''levels''] specifies how many guilist levels to go back

===guifont=== 
sets the text font to be used in a block
''font'' is a keyword, e.g. emphasis or small
''block'' is a block of gui elements for which ''font'' is used

example: newgui font-preview [loopfiles i config/fonts cfg [guifont $i [guitext $i]]]

note: This will preview all of the available ''font'' options.

==Advanced gui elements==

===guifield=== 
creates a text field;

Arguments:
*''var'' is the variable the guifield controls,
*''maxlength'' is the width in characters, negative values allow the field to expand downward,
*[''onchange''] is the action taken when the value changes,
*[''colour''] is a hex colour, e.g. 0xFF0000, 
*[''focus''] (1) will keep the input field in focus,
*[''parent''] allows to pass the input,^n[''height''] is the number of lines to show with a scroll bar,
*[''promt''] is a text shown when ''var'' is empty,
*[''immediate''] (1) updates ''var'' already while typing.

===guikeyfield=== 
creates a key field (each key being a separate element);

Arguments:
*''var'' refers to the alias/variable the guikeyfield controls,
*''maxlength'' defines the maximum number of characters/length of the field, negative values allow the field to expand downward as needed,
*[''onchangge''] is the action taken when the guikeyfield value changes,
*[''colour''] is a hexadecimal colour code example: 0xFF0000

===guibitfield=== 
creates a checkbox for the bitwise and of ''var'' and ''bit'';

Arguments:
*''name'' a text string shown to the right of the checkbox,
*''variable'' refers to an alias/var that holds bitwise information,
*''bit'' is the bit of ''var'' that the checkbox controls, given as a power of 2,
*[''onchange''] is the action taken whenever the checkbox is toggled,
*[''colour''] is a hexadecimal colour code, example: 0xFF0000.
example: guibitfield "allow votes for trial games" modelockfilter $modebitrace

===guislider===
creates a slider, depending on the use of guilist

Arguments:
*''var'' is an integer that the slider controls,
*''min'' and ''max'' give the valid range for ''var'',
*[''onchange''] is the action taken when the slider is moved,
*[''reverse''] (1) flips the slider,
*[''scroll''] (1) enables scrolling also on the parent guilist,
*[''colour''] is a hex colour (hover text),
*[''style''] (1) draws a bar instead of a point,
*[''slidercolour''] is a hex colour (bar/point).
example: guislider raceweapon 0 11


===guilistslider=== 
Similar to guislider, but using a list instead of a range for the values.

Arguments
*''var'' is an integer that the slider controls,
*''list'' holds the values for ''var'',
*the folowing arguments are equivalent to those of guislider

example: guilistslider raceweapon [0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11] 

===guinameslider=== 
Similar to guislider, but using two lists with labels and values.

Arguments
*''var'' is an integer that the slider controls,
*''names'' and ''list'' are the hover texts and values for ''var''
*the folowing arguments are equivalent to those of guislider

example: guinameslider raceweapon $weapname [0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11] 

==Hover effects==    

===guinohitfx===

Hover effects are disabled for all buttons or images in a guinohitfx block. This is useful for images that do not act as buttons.

===guitooltip=== 
creates a text box attached to the mouse pointer

Arguments
*''text'' is the hover text,
*[''width''] adjusts the width of the box,

example: if (=s $guirolloveraction "disconnect") [guitooltip "leave the current game (server)"]

===guirollovername=== 
Returns the text label or image path of the gui element at the current mouse position.

===guirolloveraction=== 
Returns the action of a button or image or the variable of a checkbox or radio at the current mouse position.

===guirollovertype=== 
Returns the type of the gui element at the current mouse position, e.g. text, image or checkbox.

==Glue functions==

A collection of aliases for some gui commands are found in the file
  /config/menus/glue.cfg

For example, this allows to create centered text (using springs) or boxed frames in menu. These aliases are also used in many of the in-game menus.