<font color="#FF0000">'''WARNING: Before setting up a public server you should read the [[Multiplayer Guidelines]], which governs how you may and may not use the master server. Be warned that modifications to the source code must be approved, and servers must honour or "auth" system. No if's, but's, or maybe's.'''</font>


== Quickstart ==

=== Windows ===

* Copy the [https://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/redeclipse/browser/doc/examples/servinit.cfg servinit.cfg] example template from '''doc\examples''' to the root Red Eclipse directory (copy to the same directory as server.bat)
* Edit these files with a text editor as appropriate
* Start the server by executing server.bat, an icon should appear in the taskbar. Click on it to view the console.


=== GNU/Linux ===

For details on locating your Red Eclipse home directory, refer to the [[Game_Settings#Linux|Game Settings]] page.

==== '''Installed''' ====

This is normally the case if you installed Red Eclipse via your package manager, or using the "system-install" make target.

* Copy the [https://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/redeclipse/browser/doc/examples/servinit.cfg servinit.cfg] example template from '''/usr/share/doc/redeclipse/examples/''' to your homedir, using
 cp /usr/share/doc/redeclipse/examples/servinit.cfg ~/.redeclipse/
* Edit these files in the homedir as appropriate
* Start the server via
 redeclipse-server

==== '''From Unpacked Tarball''' ====

This is the case if you are running Red Eclipse directly from the unpacked tarball distributed via redeclipse.net (and others).

* The [https://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/redeclipse/browser/doc/examples/servinit.cfg servinit.cfg] example template is located in '''doc/examples'''
** Copy these files either to your homedir
 cp doc/examples/servinit.cfg ~/.redeclipse/
:* or to the root redeclipse directory
 cp doc/examples/servinit.cfg .
* Edit these files as appropriate
* Start the server via
 ./server.sh


=== Mac OSX ===

There is currently no server binary for the Mac, yet it is possible to host a non-dedicated server via running the client binary in server mode. To set this up, you will need to follow a few steps:

'''1.)''' Create a new config file. Name it something like "macserver.cfg" or something to that effect.
:'''1.a)''' You can add any server settings you want to this file, just like you would inside serverxec.cfg/servinit.cfg, but '''without the `sv_` prefix''', and one important line:
 servertype 3
This line allows the server to be broadcast to the master server, and thus show up in the master list.

'''2.)''' Save this file to your Red Eclipse [[Game_Settings#Location|home directory]]

'''3.)''' Start a game of "offline practice", and type the following in the console:
 exec "macserver.cfg"
(or whatever you named it)

If all goes well, your client will connect to the master server and register itself, and will then show up in the server list. Please note that the client must be running at all times you wish the server to be online.


== Configuration Files ==

The configuration files are written in cubescript, lines starting with "//" are ignored.
If you want to configure a setting simply remove the "//" in front of it and change it's value.

=== '''servinit.cfg''' ===

[https://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/redeclipse/browser/doc/examples/servinit.cfg servinit.cfg] contains the configuration settings for a Red Eclipse server. As of Red Eclipse v1.4 Elara, the settings defined in servinit.cfg are set as the server's "default" settings, and using '''resetvars''' will simply restore the default settings, rather than re-executing '''servexec.cfg''', which is now defunct and no longer used in Red Eclipse.


==== Admin Password ====
* The admin password can (and should!) be set using
 adminpass "yourpassword"
* To claim Admin, join your server. Open the console and type the command:
 /setpriv yourpassword
'''Only give your adminpass to people you trust and deem responsible to manage your server! They can do just about anything to your server after claiming admin!'''


==== Connection Settings ====
* If you wish to customize the ports used by the server you can do so by uncommenting the ''serverport'' line and changing the port number to that of your liking. For example:
 serverport 10000
* Should you desire/need to, you may also specify which address your server binds to by uncommenting the ''serverip'' line and changing the address to that of your liking. For example:
 serverip 127.0.0.1

:Remember these settings for later, in case you will need to do [[Game::server#Forwarding_Ports|port forwarding.]]


==== Server Visibility and Access ====
You can control the visibility and/or accessibility of your server to the public.

* For a private server that does not register with the master server (and therefore does not show up on the public server list), you can use:
 servertype 1
* For a private server that DOES show on the public server list, '''but requires a password to join''', simply set the ''serverpass'' variable.
 serverpass "password_to_connect"
Note however that this is NOT the same as ''adminpass'', and will NOT allow those connected to claim admin.


==== Access Restrictions ====

You can change the "openness" of your server; ie. allowing anyone to claim '''helper''' (one hierarchal level lower than '''moderator'''), and/or preventing ''mastermode'' from being changed. Although usually unnecessary, these settings are convenient for example, public co-op editing servers.
These restrictions may be modified with the ''serveropen'' variable, and the following is a list of options:

* '''0''' - ''Very open.'' Allow "open master" (anyone may claim '''helper''' with "''setpriv 1''") and can set ''mastermode'' 2 (locked) or 3 (private).

* '''1''' - Open master, but cannot modify ''mastermode'' at all.

* '''2''' - Open master; can change ''mastermode'', but cannot set it to 3 (private). This is useful for public co-op editing.

* '''3''' - '''Default setting''', restrictive. No open master. Only those who know the ''adminpass'' may claim admin, and only Auth users may claim master.


==== Server Customization ====

* For information on how to limit modes and mutators please see [[Game::server::gamefilters|Game Filters]]

* For examples of servinit.cfg configurations see [[Game::server::examples|Server Examples]]

* For information on weapon variables, see [[Vars::Weapons|Weapon Variables]]


== Forwarding Ports ==

'''Important''': Whatever port you choose to forward, you must also forward that port plus one. For example, if you choose port 6551, you would also need to forward port 6552.

* If your server is behind a router you may need to open ports in your routers settings.

* To open ports go to your router's setup menu. This is usually done by opening your web browser (firefox, explorer) and typing http://192.168.1.1 or http://192.168.0.1 in the address bar.

* Find the section of your router's menu that ''lists connected devices''.

* Determine from this list the Internal address of the computer hosting the server. (ex: 192.168.1.5) Remember the address of the hosting computer as you will need it for the next step.

* Note: if your server becomes unconnectable check that this internal address has not been changed by your router.

* Find the section of your router's menu entitled "port forwarding" or "virtual servers"

* In this section create a new instance for Red Eclipse, opening the correct set of ports for your server version using UDP option. Forward these ports to the internal IP of the computer hosting the server.


'''Default Ports'''
{| border="1" cellpadding="0"
|Connections
|28801 UDP
|-
|Queries
|28802 UDP 
|}


For more information on port forwarding, including instructions ''specific to your router'', visit the very helpful site [http://portforward.com/english/routers/port_forwarding/routerindex.html PortForward.com]