This document was created by man2html and the online WikiConverter http://labs.seapine.com/htmltowiki.cgi

It refers to Red Eclipse as installed by the system-install target. 

== NAME ==

redeclipse-server - script to launch the server for the Red Eclipse FPS game

== SYNOPSIS ==

[ '''-h'''homedir ] [ '''-p'''packagedir ] [ '''-o'''sauerdir ] [ '''-g'''logfile ]

[ '''-ss'''{0..3} ] [ '''-sk'''joinpass ] [ '''-sP'''adminpass ] [ '''-sl'''defaultmap ] [ '''-x'''"command(s)" ]

[ '''-si'''serverip ] [ '''-sp'''serverport ] [ '''-sm'''servermaster ] [ '''-sa'''servermasterport ] [ '''-su'''serveruprate ]

[ '''-ms'''{0|1} ] [ '''-mi'''masterip ] [ '''-mp'''masterport ]

[ '''--help''' ] [ '''-v'''{0..4} ]

== DESCRIPTION ==

Red Eclipse is a single-player and multi-player first-person ego-shooter, built as a total conversion of Cube Engine 2, which lends itself toward a balanced gameplay, with a general theme of agility in a variety of environments.

'''redeclipse-server''' is a script which executes the '''redeclipse-server''' binary from the ''/usr/lib/games/redeclipse'' directory.

The recommended way to change the settings of the server is to create and edit the files servexec.cfg and servinit.cfg files in your home directory. Examples are available in ''/usr/share/doc/redeclipse/examples/''

== OPTIONS ==

=== Filesystem options ===

; '''-h'''''homedir''
: Sets your home directory to ''homedir''. This is where servinit.cfg and servexec.cfg are read from, it defaults to ''$HOME/.redeclipse/''.
;
:
; '''-p'''''packagedir''
: Includes the data files found in ''packagedir''. Can be used for adding additional maps that may be distributed to clients. By default redeclipse-server only includes data files in the working directory ''/usr/share/games/redeclipse/data'' and in the subdirecory ''temp'' of the home directory.
; '''-o'''''sauerdir''
: Sets the path to your Sauerbraten directory. If the Red Eclipse server can find your Sauerbraten directory, it will be able to load and distribute maps from it.
; '''-g'''''logfile''
: Output log to ''logfile''. Path is set relative to ''homedir''.

=== Server [[Server Example Configurations|configuration]] options ===

; '''-ss'''{0..3}
: Sets server type. 0 for local only, 1 for private, 2 for public, 3 for dedicated. Defaults to 1.
; '''-sk'''''joinpass''
: Sets the join password to ''joinpass''. Users must know the password before they can connect.
; '''-sP'''''adminpass''
: Sets the admin password to ''adminpass''.
; '''-sc'''''maxclients''
: Sets the maximum number of clients to ''maxclients''.
; '''-sl'''''defaultmap''
: Sets default map to ''defaultmap''.
; '''-x'''''"command 1; command 2; ..."''
: Executes a list of commands once the Red Eclipse server has started up.

=== Server connection options ===

; '''-si'''''serverip''
: Binds the server to the host address ''serverip''. Only needed for machines with more than one interface.
; '''-sp'''''serverport''
: sets the server port to ''serverport''.
; '''-sm'''''servermaster''
: Uses ''servermaster'' as the master server, defaults to play.redeclipse.net.
; '''-sa'''''servermasterport''
: Contacts the master server using port ''servermasterport'', defaults to 28800.
; '''-su'''''serveruprate''
: Caps upstream rate to ''serveruprate''. Once the cap is hit it will likely cause major connection glitching and disconnects. Use ''maxclients'' for bandwidth limiting instead.

=== Master server options ===

; '''-ms'''{0|1}
: Enables the server to act as a master server, defaults to 0.
; '''-mi'''masterip
: Binds the master server to the host address ''masterip''. Only needed for machines with more than one interface, defaults to ''localhost''.
; '''-mp'''masterport
: Binds the master server to the host port ''masterport'', defaults to 28800.

=== General options ===

; '''--help'''
: Display this manpage
; '''-v'''{0..4}
: Sets verbosity. This affects how much information is printed to the console. 0 is the least verbose, 4 is the most verbose.

== EXAMPLES ==

'''redeclipse-server -p$HOME/mod/data -ss0 -slbath -sPpass'''

;
: Loads data from an additional directory, sets the server type to local (LAN), sets the default map to "bath" and sets the admin password to "pass"

'''redeclipse-server -h$HOME/redeclipse-server_configs/'''

;
: Reads and writes the configuration files to the specified directory instead of ''$HOME/.redeclipse/''.

== AUTHORS ==

Red Eclipse's main developers are Quinton "quin" Reeves and Lee "eihrul" Salzman

This manual page was written by Martin Erik Werner &lt;[mailto:martinerikwerner@gmail.com martinerikwerner@gmail.com]&gt;

== HISTORY ==

Red Eclipse was forked as a continuation of the game Bloodfrontier, which in turn was based on the Cube2 engine and the Sauerbraten game. Red Eclipse and Sauerbraten are now developed in parallel.