With Red Eclipse 1.6.0 looming on the horizon, a lot of changes are being made.

This page will be frequently edited to reflect the current ideology of the developers.


=== '''Maps''' ===

----



As Molexted likes to refer to it, the "dumpster fire of maps" will be cleaned up.

Maps that do not fit these criteria will be removed / rejected:


* Does not fit the general style, lore or direction of the game.

* The map layout does not flow well or is too simple / too open for the current game physics.

* The quality of the map is poor (poor details, repetitive textures, rampant bugs) and no remake is in the pipeline.

* The general concensus points to people not liking the map


The faith of most parkour map is undecided, and thus, they have not been included here.
Some of the maps in this list have been reworked and have been marked as such.
Otherwise, you can find the reason for its removal next to it.

== Maps being added ==

* Polaris
** Duel map, very small, set far to the north in the mountains. 4 rooms, asymmetrical, no rocket.

* Plantation
** Large FFA/DAC map, asymmetrical, made a couple years ago by Rabidbutton

== Maps to be kept, no change ==
* Conflict
** Keep as-is, despite marginal layout
* Darkness
** Keep as-is
* Fatal Error
** Keep as-is
* Nova
** Keep as-is
* Octavus
** Keep as-is or with remix
* Suspended
** Keep as-is, may recieve facelift
* Ubik
** Keep as-is
* Wet
** Probably keeping as-is, despite somewhat plain layout


== Maps to be kept, with remix ==

* Abuse
** Has remix: Toxic Abuse
* Bloodlust
** Has a remix in the pipeline: Bioluminescence
* Cargo
** Undecided, badly needs a remix to stay
* Castle
** Removed, unless Molexted comes up with something
* Center
** Remix is planned
* Decay
** Keep as-is
* Deli
** Keep with a remix
* Depot
** Remix is planned
* Enyo
** Keep with a remix
* Ghost
** Keep with a remix
* Institute
** Undecided
* Livefire
** Keep with a remix
* Panic
** Keep, remix is being made
* Pumpstation
** Keeping as team map only, has remix
* Tribal
** Keep with a remip and remix

== Maps marked for removal ==

* Affluence
** Undecided
* Ares 
** Removed, does not fit the theme of the game and the layout is too open. It is thus unsalvageable
* Bath
** Removed, design is unsalvageable
* Battlefield
** Removed, terrain unsuitable for current physics
* Biolytic
** Removed, people do not enjoy it
* Campgrounds
** Removed, very poor port of a Quake 3 Arena map
* Canyon
** Undecided
* Cutec
** Removed, layout is too open
* Deadsimple
** Removed, poor quality, poor layout, people do not like it
* Deathtrap
** Removed, poor quality
* Discontinuity
** Undecided
* Dropzone
** Removed, too linear
* Dutility
** Undecided
* Echo
** Removed, poor layout
* Erosion
** Undecided
* Futuresport
** Removed, poor layout
* Keystone
** Removed, poor layout, poor quality
* Longestyard
** Undecided
* Mist
** Removed, poor layout, fugly
* Oneiroi
** Removed, unplayable
* Processing
** Remove? Looks pretty terrible and layout is confusing
* Tower
** Remove, fugly, poor layout
* Vault
** Remove, unpopular, poor layout
* Venus
** Remove, performance problems and too open



[List is incomplete, please help molex]
All maps that do not make the final cut will be available in the "Additions pack".